# **Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning**

## **Artificial Intelligence**

John McCarthy offers the following definition in this 2004 paper:

\"It is the science and engineering of making intelligent machines,
especially intelligent computer programs. It is related to the similar
task of using computers to understand human intelligence, but AI does
not have to confine itself to methods that are biologically
observable.\"

It has existed for a long time and originated from Alan Turing\'s
1950 work "Computer Machinery and Intelligence".

Artificial Intelligence makes use of computers, it's extended
technologies and tools, to mimic human intelligence/logic as well as our
decision making.

It applies computer science with robust datasets to achieve
problem-solving through multiple methodologies in today's industry. It
consists of two subfields within it that have become synonymous with the
term AI/Artificial Intelligence: Machine learning and Deep Learning.

These subfields make use of AI algorithms to provide classifications or
predictions based on the input data provided. They have improved the
quality and user experience of multiple expert systems and made it
easier to create them as well.

#### Two types of Artificial Intelligence exist: 

-   #### [Weak AI]{.ul}: Although termed as weak, weak AI is used to power most of the prevalent encounters with AI in the modern world. They are AI geared toward a specific task and include applications such as Siri, etc.

-   #### [Strong AI]{.ul}: This type consists of AGI (Artificial General Intelligence) and ASI (Artificial Super Intelligence). AGI is an AI system that's equivalent to human systems. ASI is an AI system that far exceeds human intelligence and can be categorized as exponentially growing in its intelligence levels. Strong AI is currently theoretical.

## **Machine Learning**

A computer is said to be learning from **Experiences** concerning
some class of **Tasks** if its performance in a given task improves with
the Experience. For example, consider a computer playing chess. The
performance metric to be measured can be the percentage of chess games
won. The **Experience** in this instance is 'playing chess games, the
**task** is playing chess games against itself, and the **performance
measure** is percentage of games
won.![](components/articles/artificial-intelligence/assets/image1.png){width="2.6195319335083114in"
height="2.6195319335083114in"}

That definition is the foundation over which the field of Machine
Learning is built and propagated. Machine learning works by taking past
data in a format that is suitable for processing. The data must be of high quality, since the higher the quality of the data
acquired, the better it shall be for modeling.

One might need to do some data processing on the data sets, to
ensure there are no missing values, the form of data is appropriate, and
to reduce the amount of noise/inaccuracy in the data. One has to try to
make the dataset as relevant to the requirements as possible.

Following this, the input data is divided into training,
cross-validation, and test sets. The ratio between the respective sets
must be 6:2:2.

Once the division of input data has taken place, the models are built
through appropriate algorithms and techniques on the training set.

The final step involves testing the conceptualized model using training
data that wasn't fed into the model initially and measuring the
performance based on metrics such as F1 score, precision, etc.

#### [Difference between traditional programming and machine learning]{.ul}

![](components/articles/artificial-intelligence/assets/image2.png){width="4.145833333333333in"
height="1.6208661417322834in"}

-   >As can be referenced from the above image, in **traditional
    > programs** we feed in the input and the logic/program and we
    > obtain the output accordingly.

-   >In **Machine learning**, however, we feed in the Data/input obtained
    > from the training set, along with the output from the previous
    > cycle, or the expected output. The algorithm produces its own
    > program which is then tested for performance.

#### [Classification of Machine Learning]{.ul}

-   **Supervised learning:**

    - >   *Supervised learning is the machine learning task of learning a
        > function that maps an input to an output based on an example
        > input-output pairs. The given data is labeled. Both
        > classification and regression problems are supervised learning
        > problems.*

    -   Example: Consider data of teenagers. The data consists of the
        gender and age of each teenager and each teenager is labeled
         as 'student' or 'non-student'

-   **Unsupervised learning:**

    -  > *Unsupervised learning is a type of machine learning algorithm
        > used to draw inferences from datasets consisting of input data
        > without labeled responses. In unsupervised learning
        > algorithms, classification, or categorization is not included
        > in the observations.*
    -   Hence, for our previous example of data on teenagers, the data
         would be given, and a correlation within the data would be
         inferred by the algorithm itself.

-   **Reinforcement learning:**

    - >  *Reinforcement learning is the problem of getting an agent to
        > act in the world to maximize its rewards.*

    -   A learner is not told what actions to take as in most forms of
         machine learning but instead must discover which actions yield
         the most reward by trying them. For example --- Consider
         teaching a dog a new trick: we cannot tell it what to tell it
         to do what to do, but we can reward/punish it if it does the
         right/wrong thing.

-   **Semi-supervised learning**

    -  > *Semi-supervised learning is an approach to machine learning
        > that combines small labeled data with a large amount of
        > unlabeled data during training. Semi-supervised learning falls
        > between unsupervised learning and supervised learning.*

## **Applications of Artificial Intelligence**

Some of the applications of Artificial intelligence/Machine learning is
as follows:

-  > **Speech Recognition:** One of the most common and extensive
    > applications of AI, speech recognition makes use of NLP to convert
    > human speech into an understandable format, which is then refined,
    > processed and converted into written format if needed. An example
    > of this would be Siri or the Amazon echo.

-   >**Computer vision:** CV has been on the rise in recent years,
    > especially with the popularization of tesla, and its self-driving
    > feature. It is the process wherein visual data such as from videos
    > and images, and then processing them to take the appropriate action
    > on the obtained data. Powered by convolutional neural networks,
    > computer vision has applications in photo tagging on social media,
    > radiology imaging in healthcare, and self-driving cars within the
    > automotive industry.

-  > **Fraud detection:** Banks and other financial institutions make use
    > of AI and ML to capture fraud and have a robust fraud detection
    > system, which allows them to promise more secure services, and
    > reduces the probability of fraud, especially due to rising fraud
    > numbers in recent times.

-   >**Customer service:** Usage of AI/ML-based online chatbots has
    > become quite popular and is cost-intensive, since it allows one to
    > run their business without having to hire a customer service
    > agent. Due to the improvements in AI/ML technologies, the service
    > offered by these chatbots is quite extensive, and satisfactory.
    > This domain seems to only be growing with improved datasets
    > collected from previous usage and improvement in algorithm
    > implementations.

## 

## 

## **Advantages of AI/ML**

-   >**Reduced errors:** One of the advantages of establishing an AI/ML
    > model and then using it for your processes is that it reduces the
    > manual interference that is required for data processing and onboarding.
    > This results in the lowering of manual errors and remedial tasks
    > becoming background processes, which makes the entire process more
    > efficient and less error-prone.

-   >**Automation:** With the increased adoption of AI/ML, there is an
    > increase in automation of most trivial tasks as well as tasks that
    > are business-facing. AI can be used to automate most tasks with
    > quite good results, leading to cost-effectiveness, and better
    > business processes.

-   >**Better customer experience:** With the usage of online ML based
    > chatbots, the speedy resolution of a customer's query results in
    > better satisfaction in comparison to having to call and wait for
    > customer care to get back to you. Furthermore, the automation
    > of the process, including calling a customer care representative
    > in case needed, makes the entire experience much more satisfactory
    > and seamless.

-   >**Decision making:** Although humans do not lack decision making,
    > they do lack the ability to process high amounts of information
    > with a high degree of accuracy. However, AI models can take large
    > datasets, make meaning out of them, and produce data trends,
    > forecasts and predictions without the human factor of emotions
    > involved, resulting in far more accuracy and preciseness.

## **Future of AI/ML**

Although AGI and ASI are still a long way off, there is an increased
adoption in AI/ML pipeline by businesses in their processes, and to
solve certain challenges in the short term.

With improvements in NLP technologies and increased sophistication, they
are being used in multiple business processes that make use of speech
processing, and are a part of multiple chatbot services currently being
used by customer care-oriented businesses.

Gartner predicts that 50% of enterprises will have platforms to
operationalize AI by 2025 (a sharp increase from 10% in 2020).

Hence, although hyped at times, it is a growing and in-demand technology
that is well worth learning as a specialization and allows you to grow
as a computer science enthusiast.

## **Resources for learning ML:**

-   [[https://www.kaggle.com/general/274909]{.ul}](https://www.kaggle.com/general/274909)

-   [[https://serokell.io/blog/top-resources-to-learn-ml]{.ul}](https://serokell.io/blog/top-resources-to-learn-ml)

-   [[https://www.deepwizai.com/roadmap/ml-roadmap]{.ul}](https://www.deepwizai.com/roadmap/ml-roadmap)
